>> Scott Moss: Resolvers we
talked a little bit about it.
I think this is the part where at least
for me, learned about resolvers and
kinda got into it.
It kinda just changed a lot for me.
Resolvers they're functions
that are responsible for
turning values for
fields that exist on Types in a Schema.
Resolvers execution is dependent
on the incoming client Query.
So I really wanna dive into that a little
bit because I think it's very important
of what I'm trying to talk about here.
So a few things.
>> Scott Moss: One,
the thing to mention is,
I don't remember if I
mentioned earlier on but
now is definitely a good
time to mention it.
GraphQL, only has one endpoint.
There's not many endpoints.
There's there's not like a rest where
you have some resource slash ID and
then you want another resources and other.
No, there's literally only one
endpoint for GraphQL and that's it.
And most of the time,
you can do everything over GET, but
most the time is probably
gonna be over POST.
And that's because GrapQL doesn't
respect HTTP, it doesn't care.
[LAUGH] It does not respect HTTP.
If you got an error back, it's not gonna
give you back a status code of an error,
you still gonna get back at 200.
It doesn't respect HTTP, so
if you have a system based off of that,
you're gonna struggle with GraphQL,
you're gonna have to do some refactoring.
In fact, everything with GraphQL
is based off the response.
So instead of getting back a status code
of 400 or something like that by default,
you might get back an object that has
an error that tells you the code,
then it hears a message.
So you have to look at that stuff.
But yeah, there's only one endpoint, and
then the only thing that's dynamic
is the Query that you send up.
The reason I'm saying
that is because the Query
that the client sends up dictates
what resolvers get executed.
So the only resolvers that get
executed are the ones that are for
the fields that you ask for in your Query.
So if I say I wanna execute the me
Query and I wanna get the email.
In this example, this is a Query
that the client is sending up.
I'm executing the me Query and
I want to get the actual email.
If we go and
look at the resolvers that I created.
In this case I created one resolver for
the entire me field that
returns all these fields.
So I only have one resolver,
I only have one field in this case.
It's always going to run this
resolver if I asked for it.
So if I were to run this,
we get back the result.
But let's say I noticed I have this
friends, this friends Query here.
There's no resolver for it.
But yet GraphQL didn't throw an error
cuz there's no resolver, but
that's because I didn't ask for it.
So therefore didn't even try
to go look for it there.
I didn't ask for friends in the Query,
so therefore, GraphQL didn't even go try
to execute, it doesn't make any sense.
The resolvers only get resolved
based off the Queries that you sent.
And that's basically how it works.
It's going to get a little deeper than
that, I just don't wanna get to it yet
when we start talking about
field level resolvers.
But you can also write a resolver for
each single field that exists on a Type.
Right now we only have a resolver for
a whole field called me, which is
an object type but we can also have
resolvers for the email or the avatar.
And those resolvers won't get executed
unless you ask for that field.
So in this case I'm asking for
the email field.
If I have resolvers for
avatar and friends,
those resolvers won't get executed.
They never will run cuz I didn't ask for
them from the client Query.
So this is kinda the graph
nature of GraphQL.
You are responsible as far as a server
developer for creating nodes and
how they connect with each other.
And you are responsible for
creating resolvers to resolve those nodes.
You're not responsible for sayin,
here's how you can access though,
that's up to the client.
The client says,
here's how I want to access them.
And your server should be able to satisfy
that within the bounds of the schema.
As long as the client sends up something
that satisfies the schema validation,
therefore, they should
be able to retrieve it.
So your creating something that flexible
without having to think of every single
use case.
In rest you would have to think
of that use case ahead of time,
make a controller for it.
Then eventually you'll probably just
get lazy and be like all right,
just pass me a Query string, right?
Just give me a Query string and
I'll take that Query string and
I'll just throw it in SQL, or I'll throw
it in Mongo or something like that.
Well, yeah, that's basically
what GraphQL was doing so for
you don't have to think about it ahead
of time the client just does it.
Okay, so creating resolvers.
Like what went through an early example,
resolvers names must match the exact
field name on your Schema's Types.
So that means a resolver
which is a function,
its name must exactly map
to what's in your Schema.
So in this case I have
a Query type with a me field.
So my resolvers object I have
a Query field and a me field and
that's how it works.
If I change it to something
else you can bet that
it won't even start up,
it was like what is that?
It's basically saying you have a resolver
defined but it's not in the Schema.
So you made a resolver called mes but
the Schema knows nothing about that, so
it's broke.
That's something that Apollo does for
you for free.
It'll check your resolvers
versus your crazy mutations and
see if they match on start up.
You can turn it off if you don't want.
Don't recommend doing it.
But yeah, it's basically doing that check
for you to make sure that they work.
>> Scott Moss: So that's one thing,
they must match exactly the same.
Resolvers must return the value type
declared for the matching field.
So I went over this before, but
in the example that we have the me field
on the Query returns a user type which is
an object as an email avatar and friends.
And this is a string.
This is a string.
This is an array of users.
I satisfied that.
If I don't satisfy this and I ask for
field then it's gonna break.
For instance, if I don't return an avatar,
I'm sorry if I don't return an email,
which, as we know is not know.
And I tried to ask for that email
I'm gonna get back an error because
the resolver didn't resolve
that non-null value for me.
So therefore GraphQL saying
I cannot return null for
non-nullable field, and it breaks.
And that's the resolvers job.
I mean,
I guess you could just come here and
say well, it's not non-null anymore,
I just bypassed it.
Well okay,
you're kinada defeating the purpose.
You really [LAUGH] want your
resolvers to respect your schema and
not the other way around.
Everyone in your company will hate you
if you go around changing the schema,
I promise you.
It is never a good thing.
Guaranteed, everybody get
together agree on the schema,
keep it that way until you
can't keep it that way.
But don't go around change and stuff.
People won't like it.
I promise you.
>> Scott Moss: All right.
>> Scott Moss: And
then resolvers can be async.
And my example is clearly I'll just
I was just returning an object, but
resolvers can be async.
So because they can be an async,
you can retrieve data from pretty
much any source that you want.
I mean, graticule has no idea
where you're getting data from,
whether it's a database, multiple
databases another service, a REST API.
It doesn't know,
it doesn't care just satisfied this shape.
And if you're gonna take
20 seconds to get back and
this resolver, then that's your problem.
Now, you've gotta deal with the Query
complexity of someone DDoS and
you by doing an infinite Query or
something like that, that's your problem.
That's not GraphQL's problem,
you gotta fix that.
So [LAUGH] and that is a thing.
So you can retrieve from any data source,
and
I think this is where
the flexibility comes from.
At least for me,
when I saw this I was like, okay,
you can pretty much mesh
together a whole bunch of stuff.
For instance, if you're app gets
data from your data base but
it also gets data from Stripe to get
your customer's account status to see if
they're still active or whatever.
You could just put that in a resolver and
expose that VN and API and
have like a Stripe status on your schema.
And as far as a client is concerned,
it just came from your server.
But what your server did is actually went
to Stripe and merge it with your data and
created one type.
And it just looks like
it came from the server.
So you can do pretty
interesting stuff like that.
Which I think is really cool because
without that it's a lot more challenging.
You gotta build that system your self and
the guarantees and all that stuff.
Any questions on this?
>> Scott Moss: No?
Okay.
So a schema plus resolvers equal server.
And, I said it earlier, but
the minimum you need for a server is,
you need a schema which has some
typedefs and at least one Query on it.
And then a resolver for that field.
That's exactly what we have here.
We have nothing more.
We have one type definition,
we have one Query.
I don't even need this friends things here
only one and only have a resolver for it.
That's the minimum you need for
working GraphQL API.
That's it.
And
everything else after this is
even to just more of the same or
optimizations as far as speed,
security, and stuff like that.
But this is mostly GraphQL at this point.
Like I said, other than
the caching stuff that gets hard,
from here it's just about getting
creative about how you resolve data and
how do you do advanced things,
how do you organize stuff like that.
But this is mostly how GraphQL works,
is very simple.
And if you really looked at this,
this has nothing to do with the server.
I mean, you could run this anywhere.
If you think about if you had a schema,
some type definitions, and
a map of resolver functions,
you could execute this on any environment.
You can put this on the client.
You can put this wherever you want.
I know people who write CSS in
GraphQL [LAUGH] it's a thing.
You can execute this wherever you want.
People use it to do all
types of crazy stuff.
So this has nothing to do with a server
and data base, is more about resolving and
satisfying a specific shape of data that's
being asked by some third party client,
or something like that.
So pretty interesting if you
think about it in that way.
>> Speaker 2: In a passing comment [COUGH]
about string concatenation being kind of
pain in the butt
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: You're talking about all
of your Queries trying to concatenate
the strings together in this
one file from separate files or
is there-
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, that sucks too.
Yeah [LAUGH] I don't recommend doing that.
If you wanna separate things and put
them in separate files, me, personally,
I would use a .graphql file and
then I would use the file system.
For this type definitions thing here, you
can pass an array of type definitions and
it will just split them together for you.
So it does have to be one string.
So you don't have to do that yourself.
So that's one thing.
But what I was specifically talking
about is if you had to create dynamic
schemas on the fly, based off a model and
having to generate that programmatically
with a string, that is painful.
You can't test it and GraphQL's
very particular about spacing and
all types of characters.
It's very unforgiving.
So I don't recommend doing that if you
were dynamically creating schemas.
If you are dynamically creating schemas,
I recommend using the programmatic
approach based off whatever language
you're creating GraphQL in.
So you'd generate those
schemas dynamically.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.